# The-Game-of-Nim
The rule for this game is very simple. Players take stones from different piles in turns. A player can take any number of stones he or she wants, but is only allowed to take stones from one pile at a time. The player who takes the last stone wins the game. \n
In this repo, I used two ways to solve this problem. I learned the first method from a Mathologer video on YouTube. We can convert the number of stones in each pile into binary. We then write down the binary numbers one by one and check whether in all digits, the number of ones are even. If that's true, we call it "balanced", and the player facing this situation is in a losing(L), or "previous"(P), position. For instance, 1100, 101, 1001 is such a position - The numbers of ones in each digit from left to right are 2,2,0,2, respectively. The current player must break the balance whatever move he takes, and the next player always have a way to restore the balance. Since the final position (with all zeros) is balanced, the player who moves into a balanced position wins the game. We call an inbalanced situation a winning(W), or "next"(N), position, because they always have a move that moves the opponent into a losing position. \n
The second method is induction. We first set up base cases with one or more zeros and identify them as winning or losing positions. Then we see whether a certain position can move into a losing position. If it can, then the current position is a winning position. Otherwise, it is a losing position. In this way, we can create a table of winning and losing positions. \n
THese two methods can both be generalized into more complicated games. \n
